(Ch”eck One)
[ Excellent [} Good [ Fair O] Deteriorated [ Ruins ] Unexposed

CONDITION

‘(Check One) (Check One)
[ Altered [R Unaltered ] Moved Original Site

DESCRIBE THE PRESENT AND ORIGINAL ({f known) PHYSICAL APPEARANCE

The Louis Tainter house is a two-and-one-half story, rectangular plan
structure with a rock-faced rusticated stone exterior. The first floor,
west facade has flat-arched windows with exagerated voussoirs; the second
floor windows are similar, but are topped by lintels. The central mass of
the building projects and is crowned by a high hipped roof with a band of

. geometric ornament under the eaves. In the center of the hip is a tall
chimmey and at the left side of the projecting wall and hip is a large,
round tower with a conical roof. There is an ornamental gable over the
third floor windows of the tower. From this central mass extends various
hipped-roofed parts, two on each side; however, this facade is by no means
symmetrical. It carries on the picturesque tradition of irregularly placed
dormers, chimmeys, and windows. The main entry is at the northwest corner.
Along the north side of the building and around each corner is a one-story
‘arcade. The rounded arches have heavy voussoirs and along the top of the
east side is a band of Sullivanesque ornament. The ornament is a fanciful
pattern of foliate spirals alternating with masks peeking from the foliage.
The entry arch is marked with an ornamental gable similar to the one on the
west tower. The east side of the building has a shape and pattern of
windows similar to the west. The roof line is less picturesque with a low,
rounded dormer of clapboard, lower chimmeys, and symmetrically-placed
dormers. This house is an example of the Richardsonian Romanesque.

The exterior remains ° the same as built and will continue in its present
condition because the University of Wisconsin--Stout has taken great care
to make minimal changes and will continue the policy. During its various
uses as a dormitory and as a vocational rehabilitation center, only
superficial changes were made on the interior and none on the exterior.
The community has. great interest in the building because of its relation-
ship to the Mabel Tainter Memorial, an important landmark for the city.

336

SNOI1L1LDONYLSNI
